# Sequelize
This directory contains scripts and config options to seed the database with dummy data. For information and documentation about Sequelize please see their official website https://sequelize.org/

## Migrations
Migrations are the scripts to create tables and initialize the database. Migrations can be written to run after the initial migration takes place.

It is important to note that the migrations run in sequential order, so using a numbering system is important. It is also important to note that FK columns and relationships can be ***and should be*** defined as their own migrations. This is to prevent errors of columns being created when the parent table no longer exists. 

Individual migrations _can_ be reverted as per the Sequelize documentation.

## Seeders
A seeder is a script to seed a particular set of data. As with Migrations these scripts run in order, so numbering is important.

Because of FK constraints it is again important to note when data is seeded to prevent errors with FK constraints. Imports can be chained in a single seed script, and this may be useful and advised for seeded data that is related through a FK.

## NPM commands
This repo has simplified a few of the Sequelize CLI options that would be commonly used by this project.
- `npm run db-create` will create the database and run all migrations.
- `npm run db-delete` will delete all tables and revert all migrations.
- `npm run db-seed` will run all seeders and populate all data.
- `npm run db-unseed` will delete all data in all tables and revert all seeders.

# Casbin
User role management is being handled by [Casbin](https://casbin.org/). To facilitate this our migrations and seeding will replicate the `casbin_rule` table that would be generated by the casbin-sequelize package. We are then seeding as normal, however the field names are not straight-forward. They are defined as follows:
- `role` = The plain-text name of the role. _Example:_ `admin`
- `path` = The path the role has access to. _Example:_ `/user`
- `method` = The http method that can be hit. _Example_ `GET`

For use and management of roles after seeding, please refer to the API spec or Casbin Node.js documentation. 

# Links and more information
To create new models, migrations, and seeders you _must_ use the Sequelize CLI commands. Full documentation is here https://sequelize.org/master/manual/migrations.html but here are a few useful commands:
- `npx sequelize-cli model:generate --name User --attributes firstName:string,lastName:string,email:string` - Creates a model under `/src/models` and a migration script.
- `npx sequelize-cli seed:generate --name demo-user` - Creates a seeder for the `User` model and migration previously setup.